PADV-228: Add LTI 1.3 support to the LTI Provider app (#85)
Pearson-Advance/edx-platform: docs/decisions/0005-lti-provider-1.3-spec-support.rst

and creates database records for the specific Outcome Service and for the
graded LTI launch.

.. code:: python

   # Store any parameters required by the outcome service in order to report
   # scores back later. We know that the consumer exists, since the record was
   # used earlier to verify the oauth signature.
   store_outcome_parameters(params, request.user, lti_consumer)

.. code:: python
   # Create a record of the outcome service if necessary
   outcomes, __ = OutcomeService.objects.get_or_create(
      lis_outcome_service_url=result_service,
      lti_consumer=lti_consumer
   )

   GradedAssignment.objects.get_or_create(
      lis_result_sourcedid=result_id,
      course_key=course_key,
      usage_key=usage_key,
      user=user,
      outcome_service=outcomes
   )

Later, when a score on edX changes (identified using the signal mechanism):

.. code:: python
   @receiver(grades_signals.PROBLEM_WEIGHTED_SCORE_CHANGED)
   def score_changed_handler(sender, **kwargs):  # pylint: disable=unused-argument
      """
      Consume signals that indicate score changes. See the definition of
      PROBLEM_WEIGHTED_SCORE_CHANGED for a description of the signal.
      """

> While handling the score change, first it will get all assignments related

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While handling the score change, first it will get all the assignments related
```

> to the course_key, usage_key received from the signal, and increment each one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the course_key and usage_key received from the signal, and increment each one
```

version_number by 1, this version number is used to avoid race conditions
while sending score updates:

.. code:: python
   # Get all assignments involving the current problem for which the campus LMS
   # is expecting a grade. There may be many possible graded assignments, if
   # a problem has been added several times to a course at different

>    # granularities (such as the unit or the vertical).

Reviewer 2: I know the documentation for get_assignments_for_problem implies that a single problem can exist multiple times in a course, and at different granularities, but I'm pretty sure that's not true.  If you _copy_ a problem component you end up with a new problem component with its own block id (usage_key). So multiple _copies_ of a problem can certainly be made, and located either in the same assignment/subsection (but why would you do this unless using cohort or track-based differentiated content), or in multiple assignments, but in either case they will each be a distinct problem instance.  I don't believe (happy to be proven wrong!) that get _assignment_for_problem should return more than one assignment.  
Confusing I know but Open edX uses both 'unit' and 'vertical' to mean the same thing.  
Also, content only exists at the vertical/unit level.  You can't add content blocks of any type at any other level, at least not from Studio. Attempting to do so by manipulating the OLX does kinda work in that Studio will load the file and try to represent it, but on publish the LMS renders the component under an existing subsection.

Author: It think get_assignments_for_problem was made because PROBLEM_WEIGHTED_SCORE_CHANGED describes in it's source code that it's only sent on problem score changes: 

```
# Signal that indicates that a user's weighted score for a problem has been updated.
# This signal is generated when a scoring event occurs in the Submissions module
# or a PROBLEM_RAW_SCORE_CHANGED event is handled in the core platform.
```

That means that in order to update outcomes for LTI 1.1 launches made for vertical components, the receiver will need to catch the score changes on vertical components from it's children, currently get_assignments_for_problem does that by tracing the parent hierarchy of a given problem:

```
locations = []
current_descriptor = problem_descriptor
while current_descriptor:
    locations.append(current_descriptor.location)
    current_descriptor = current_descriptor.get_parent()
assignments = GradedAssignment.objects.filter(
    user=user_id, course_key=course_key, usage_key__in=locations
)
return assignments
```

Now, right now I'm not sure on what's the behavior of PROBLEM_WEIGHTED_SCORE_CHANGED signal, this signal only translates the information sent from the score_set signal defined in `submission.models`, score_set signal is described has always informing any score change from any item:

```
# Signal to inform listeners that a score has been changed
score_set = Signal(providing_args=[
    'points_possible', 'points_earned', 'anonymous_user_id',
    'course_id', 'item_id', 'created_at'
])
```

If that's the case, then you are right that there should only be one LTI assignment to be catch on score_set or `PROBLEM_WEIGHTED_SCORE_CHANGED` signal for a given user_id, course_key and usage_key. 

I will look at this on further detail since there are more details I'm missing from how grading is handled by the platform.

   assignments = outcomes.get_assignments_for_problem(
      problem_descriptor, user_id, course_key
   )

Then for each assignment in the assignments queryset, it determines if the

> score, is of a composite module or a single problem, and depending on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
score, comes from a composite module or a single problem, and depending on the
```

   │   └── 1p3 # Create LtiUser1p3 using multi table inheritance with LtiUser
   ├── utils
   │   ├── __init__.py
   │   ├── users.py
   │   ├── 1p3 # Store utilities for 1.3 specification
   │   └── 1p1 # Store utilities for 1.1 specification
   │       ├── __init__.py
   │       ├── signature_validator.py
   │       └── outcomes.py
   ├── signals.py # Use score_changed_handler for both specifications
   └── views.py
       ├── __init__.py
       ├── 1p1 # Define LTI 1.1 views here
       └── 1p3 # Define LTI 1.3 views here

LTI 1.3 Open edX community discussion
-------------------------------------

-  Deep dive into LTI 1.3 in the Open edX platform:
   https://openedx.org/video/deep-dive-into-lti-1-3-in-the-open-edx-platform/
-  LTI 1.3 and LTI Advantage:
   https://discuss.openedx.org/t/lti-1-3-and-lti-advantage/5672
-  LTI Provider in Nutmeg and future releases?:
   https://discuss.openedx.org/t/lti-provider-in-nutmeg-and-future-releases/8330/14
-  A question about LTI provider support in Open edX:
   https://discuss.openedx.org/t/a-question-about-lti-provider-support-in-open-edx/4866/2
-  Open edX Slack LTI channel:
   https://openedx.slack.com/archives/C0GR05YC

> 

Reviewer 3: Given how this would fit in a new app, is it possible to make that APP live in an openedx-plugin?

   │   └── 1p3 # Create LtiUser1p3 using multi-table inheritance with LtiUser
   ├── utils
   │   ├── __init__.py
   │   ├── users.py
   │   ├── 1p3 # Store utilities for 1.3 specification
   │   └── 1p1 # Store utilities for 1.1 specification
   │       ├── __init__.py
   │       ├── signature_validator.py
   │       └── outcomes.py
   ├── signals.py # Use score_changed_handler for both specifications
   └── views.py
       ├── __init__.py
       ├── 1p1 # Define LTI 1.1 views here
       └── 1p3 # Define LTI 1.3 views here

Approach C: Create LTI Provider Plugin
--------------------------------------

Another approach would be to create a new openedx-plugin. We would
create a new app that will include a common set of utilities and
services used by both LTI 1.1 and LTI 1.3, and an app for each LTI
specification, and their corresponding services, each one with their
views and tasks. Similar to the structure of the B approach. This
approach would also avoid adding more code to the monolithic
edx-platform structure.

In this approach, we will require to import a few classes and functions
from edx-platform, for example, the User model to keep track of users on

> LTI launches the PROBLEM_WEIGHTED_SCORE_CHANGED signal to receive the

Reviewer 3: The signal part can be done using an openedx-event. Now, the user model is a bit trickier. There are things we can do with the [configurable backends pattern](https://github.com/eduNEXT/eox-core/tree/master/eox_core/edxapp_wrapper/backends) to avoid the import, but we would still be tying the underlying implementation of the model to the plugin.
